Tell me about yourself.

My name is Forrest, I am a Full-Stack Web Developer with knowledge in HTML, CSS, Javascript, React, Node.Js, and Python.
I reside in Thousand Oaks, California and I am enrolled in Lambda School. I enjoy coding, art, and music. 

What do you know about our company?

I know you guys are an online school dedicated to teaching the fundamentals of Full-Stack Web Development
and getting people out into the field to apply those skills.

Where do you see yourself in the next 3-5 years?

I personally see myself working for a fairly large company using a certain avenue of my coding skills daily.

Why do you want to work here?

I love the environment and the initiative your company takes to get things done professionally, 
and I personally think I can bring a lot of insight and valuable skills to the table.

What makes you most qualified for this role?

My experience for the past year being 100% committed to learning Web Development 
and the persistence I have to bring that energy to the workplace.

What is your greatest weakness?

Getting too caught up in a problem if it isn't working the way I want it to.

What is your greatest strength? 

Ability to work in a team and facilitate / time-management

Why do you want this job?

To express myself in a friendly work environment like this one and prosper over time.

Why should we hire you?

My experience for the past year being 100% committed to learning Web Development 
and the persistence I have to bring that energy to the workplace.

What is your greatest professional achievement?

Recording and releasing two full-length albums all by myself.

What's your dream job?

To artistically whether its in music, art, or Web Development

What type of work environment do you prefer?

Collaborative

How would your boss and co-workers describe you?

Friendly, funny, and hard-working

Scenario Questions

A time you succeeded / Your biggest accomplishments / Your greatest challenge

A time I succeeded was when I successfully created a fully-functioning marketing page for a client, 
my biggest accomplishment was recording and releasing two full-length albums all by myself, 
and those two things were actually my greatest challenges as well.

A time you persuaded someone who did not agree with you

At Jamba Juice we had a very long line and it was very busy.
I persuaded a few team members to switch their tasks around to better ensure 
customer satisfaction and deliver their drinks more fast and efficiently.

A time you dealt with and resolved a conflict (among team members)

During a build-week, we had a particular individual who truly was not a "Team Player" 
and was being very unprofessional / rude to a fellow asset to our team. 
We brought this to the attention of our Team leads and Section leads to handle and tackle accordingly, therefore, resolving the conflict.

A time you led a team / a time you showed leadership skills

One time working at Starbucks, there was two brand-new team members that were still not trained. 
I was the only experienced worker working at the time, so I took them under my wing and 
juggled all the tasks for the day while teaching them and ensuring customer satisfaction was constantly met.

A time you dealt with stress / The most difficult problem you've encountered in your previous job, and how you solved it

One time working at Starbucks, I opened the store alone at 7 AM, 
was told no-one else would be coming into their shift, and proceeded to close the store at 3 PM. 
Essentially I did the opening tasks (2 ppl required), mid-shift tasks (2 ppl required), and closing tasks (2 ppl required) all alone.

A time you solved a problem creatively

One time while I was building a website for a client, I was asked to implement a feature 
I didn't have lots of experience with. I did some research and figured out my own way of adding 
it to avoid copying code. It was a fun challenge.

A time you had to exceed expectations to get a job done

Myself along with my team went the extra mile to generate 1000 rooms for our tower maze game instead of sticking with 500.

A time you showed initiative

When I worked on the labs project with a few peers, I attended meetings with our stakeholder every wednesday to ensure his satisfaction of the product we were building.

Tell me something that’s not on your resume

I play Piano, Guitar, Bass, and Drums

An example of an important goal you set and how you reached it

I planned to release an album by the end of the year in January 2019. 
I played music give or take everyday to ensure my album would be released by the end of the year and I managed to make it happen.

A time you failed

During a build week project mentioned prior, due to all the inner conflicts surrounding 
the one member of our team, we ended up being unsuccessful in delivering a fully function product.


